Gender and Climate Change
Uncertain predictions, invisible impacts, and the need to mainstream gender
  in climate change adaptations.

Effects of climate change are gendered, but gender is ignored.

Term Gender-blindness is used, what are your thoughts on the term?
Article published around 2002, how would the article have been different today?
	- "the uncertainty of the climate change prediction"
	- "lack of mainstreaming of env issues"
> I don't really understand the idea that women are somehow closer to nature, where does this come from? It was present a little in the Tuesday reading.
Nelson mentions the idea that women are predisposed to serve communities is harmful, what do you think of that?
> The author speaks about the potentially gendered impact of climate change, but doesn't give much impetus to that discussion
- Women in developming countries are primary natural resource managers
What sorts of things would affect Women in developing countries specifically?
  How would this differ from developed countries?
- Work opportunities are almost exclusively male
Why is it important to include women in drought/climate change recovery?
> I don't know if I buy the argument that spending $$ for public works reinforces gender biases or somehow makes things worse.
How are women excluded currently?
> The whole settled v non-settled distinction really falls flat. It seems contrived and not all that important.
What could alter the cultural institutions that caused such a disproportionate number of women to die compared to men?
- Most gender differences occur in the aftermath
> It sounds like disasters like climate change exacerbate existing problems
Do disasters create new problems for women or exacerbate existing issues?
What does the positive impact of Hurricane Mitch (giving women working roles) say about altering gender bias?
> Nelson mentions that it is CLEAR that the impacts will be gendered. I'm not sure if I see enough in her article to warrant such a conclusion.

Overall not super impressed with this research essay. Maybe I'm missing a bunch of context which would give me a more informed view of where the author is coming from, but it doesn't seem like she makes all that many important points, nor does she propose any significant outcome. It appears to me that the most she can say is that climate change will have a different impact on different groups of people, but to imply that it will always be along the lines of gender seems a bit much.

How does excluding or including women affect their capabilities and/or functions? (from Nussbaum)

----DISCUSSION----

Distributed Distribution of relief




