Women's Capabilities and Social Justice

Women's failure to succeed in society is in terms of access and capability to do human actions.
	- Basically, women lack access and capability to fully exercise human functions.
	- Satisfying these items is SOCIAL JUSTICE
	- Each Person is a value for an end, not a mere means

Nussbaums capabilities approach pioneered by Amarty Sen:
	- Took a look at:
		> 100 million missing women
		> Dowry bondage
		> male birth preference in india & mid-east
		> china's one child policy

Martha's Theory:
	- Proposes items in terms of economic development for both advanced and advancing countries.
		> Income, Education, Health, Safety, improving quality of life
	- How is social justice been compromised?
		> Absence in decision making
		> Lower qual health
		> discrimination
		> harassment
		> little legal resource
	- Why is Gross National Product not working for women?
		> does not address how much wealth women control
		> ignores women's decision-making ability
		> basically doesn't account for which capabilities people have.
		> also doesn't show where wealth is accumulating
	- Areas of capabilities:
		> Life - being an end not a means
		> Bodily Health - give you the ability to be healthy
		> Bodily integrity
		> Senses, Imagination
		> Emotions
		> Ability to reason
		> Affiliation
		> Be part of nature
		> Ability to play
		> Control over ones environment

When discussing rights, sometimes choice gets put to the side.
	- the capabilities approach has a heavy emphasis on choice

"The Second Shift"
	- formal work in addition to house work
	- but they don't have to do both

Hm, but what if the rules are in place to protect women?
	- I think the capabilities approach is to give people the ability to function they can make whatever choice
	- don't forget your own inconsistencies though


She has a goal of utilizing Kantian ethical philosophy to prove the imperative of feminism. NICE

I liked where she was going, even liking the idea of forming a list of what 'makes people human,' until she put the list down. It seemed a bit fabricated IMO. The list seems to have overlap (though OP doesn't think so) and some very high qualifications for human life.

We shall see.

Good on OP to make the distinction between functioning and capability. Back on board. Having the ability to do something to be an end is far different from having to exercise said capabilities.

The language of functioning and capabilities is a really solid supplement to rights. Nussbaum hits on this and has it right, I think. It adds some power and reason to rights. Also a metric for determining if rights are satisfied outside of mere paper laws.

This framework of capabilities is a way of determining what a person should be ABLE to do regardless of what they THINK they want to do. A key distinction because there are plenty of cultures and people who don't desire to change. We want to allow that while giving them the ability to change.

Disadvantage: It sure is hard to calcuate capabilities in any way.


